Forking cdrtools as cdrkit
--------------------------


So, why the fork? CD/DVD burning is a complicated business that needs a
lot of knowledge, so forking such a big collection isn't a step to be
taken lightly. It requires a lot of human resources that could be put to
better use elsewhere.

In the past, we (the Debian maintainers) had a good and mutually
cooperative relationship with Jörg.  He even commented on Debian bug
reports, which is one of the best things an upstream maintainer can do.
Naturally, there were occasionally discussions, but this is normal.


Unfortunately SUN then developed the CDDL[1], a license that was
intentionally made to be incompatible with the GPL.  The FSF itself says
that this is the case and also people who helped drafting the CDDL state
it. One current and one former Sun employee visited the annual Debian
conference in Mexico in 2006.  There, Danese Cooper clearly stated that
the CDDL was modelled upon the MPL in order to achieve this
incompatibility with the GPL. For everyone who wants to hear this, we
have videos from that talk available at [2].


You can read the FSF position about the CDDL at [3] and some statements
Debian people brought up at [4] and a wide range of other mails in that
thread.  Basically the CDDL has extra restrictions, something thats not
allowed from the GPL.  As Jörg has a different opinion about this and
repeatedly stated that the CDDL is not incompatible, interpreting the
look of a face in the mentioned video, calling us liar and generally
seemed to be unwilling to consider our concerns (he never replied to the
parts where we explained why it is incompatible), so basically ignoring
what we said - we had no other choice than a fork.


We used the last version where the program code was licensed under GPL
and killed the incompatibly licensed build-system. It is now replaced by
a cmake system, and the whole source we distribute should be free of
other incompatibilities, as to the best of our current knowledge.


Anyone who wants to help with this fork, which especially includes other
distributions, is welcome to join our efforts. You can contact us on
IRC, server irc.oftc.net, channel #debburn or via mail at
debburn-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org, our svn repository is
http://svn.debian.org/wsvn/debburn.


[1] http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.php
[2] http://meetings-archive.debian.net/pub/debian-meetings/2006/debconf6/theora-small/2006-05-14/tower/OpenSolaris_Java_and_Debian-Simon_Phipps__Alvaro_Lopez_Ortega.ogg
[3] http://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html
[4] http://lists.debian.org/debian-devel/2006/08/msg00552.html
